# MERN Stack Overview
MERN is about using React JS, Node JS,  Express JS, and MongoDB. My application allows users to sign in and they can add different places using the google maps API to locate the place and display it. Each user has their own profile with their names and the amount of places they have and their profile picture, and all other users of my website can view each other’s profile and their places. I worked on this project for a month now, it was a lot to cover since I have never done a full MERN application and to this extent. I published what I was following in the course in my github at arojas32. The goal of following this course was to gain a further understanding of the MERN stack and to get an experience of building a full application with full functionality, server and client side.

The client side of my code I used React JS to build most of the frontend of my application. The client side of my code consists of a places folder, where we store the logic behind requesting the places the user put in the frontend, saving it to our backend and then displaying the amount of places that user has and their corresponding  places. A shared folder where we store repeating logic where we might need to referencing it to other parts of our frontend. A user folder where we store the logic behind the profile of our users, for example when you first launch the app, you are greeted with all of our created users profile, the names, the amount of places that user has created and their profile picture. This folder also handles the logic when the user logs in and creates a new user and sends that information to our backend. We needed to use React for our frontend to handle a lot of logic that would have been huge with native JS, we needed a frontend framework that would have an interactive website that would display in lots of devices. As a result of using react you can visit this website on the phone and a computer and it will render correctly.

The libraries I'm using for our frontend are react, react-dom, react-router-dom, react-scripts, react-transition-group. The React library is mainly used to create interactive user interfaces with the use of components and that can handle state with react hooks. These features in react are what allows our application to be interactive, also allowing us to build components in the frontend modularizing a complex whole application to smaller chunks. That is what allows our app to hot display live content to our users without having to refresh the page. Additionally the react-dom package is part of react, this is what allows us to use extra functionality to manipulate the DOM in our website. The react-router-dom library is used in our app, enabling our app to implement dynamic routing in a web app. It allows our app to display pages and allow users to navigate them. It is a fully-featured client and server-side routing library for React. React Router Dom is used to build single-page applications i.e. applications that have many pages or components but the page is never refreshed instead the content is dynamically fetched based on the URL.This process is called Routing and it is made possible with the help of React Router Dom. React-scripts is what helps us start a framework of react by running this command in our folder of our project - “create-react-app”. These libraries are used in our frontend. All of these libraries help us to build the app in a more functional, dynamic and easily displayable one page-application, like we are running now. It just updates our state. Our App also gets help from APIs. In our app we get help from google maps API, so when our user clicks on another user's place, a fully interactive map is shown. This is to help the users know where exactly it is, because without it they would only have a picture submitted by the user that created that place.

When we started our project we planned how we were going to start our application, we decided that building our frontend first was a good starting point. First we needed to build our users page which is located at our homepage of our application. We needed to re-render the page once we got the users,  at the time of building we didn't have functionality to get users from the database so instead we rendered dummy users. Then after that we built the authentication page, which had login and sign up pages. Then we built the backend to support and get data from our auth page. Then we had to build the user’s places page and the google map components and a lot more steps. We had to build our frontend first then our backend because the way we built our front end, our backend allowed us to view what we needed exactly for the backend. Instead of building it along the way instead we just built dummy users and places to see how applications would work and see.

The server side of my code is built using Express JS  and MongoDB as the database. The reason behind building the server side code the way I did, was to easily organize my code.I sorted my server side code into folders representing what they do. The Controllers folder handles most of my work, that is it handles logic where users create their place and login. Middleware is to handle other code like submitting files and checking the authentication of a user and routes is where we listen to requests given to the frontend and execute the login given at the request.

The libraries I am using to help me are Axios, Bcrypt JS, Body-Parser, Express, Express-Validator, JSONWebToken, Mongoose, Mongoose-Unique-validator, Multer, UUID. Axios is a promise-based HTTP Client for node.js and the browser, Axios is the way I am connecting to the google API. Bcrypt JS is the way we are encrypting the user’s password and saving it to our mongo database. In case if someone does somehow access our database at least the passwords aren't visible. Body-Parser is how we are handling incoming requests from JSON to Javascript. Mongoose Library helps us to easily make schemas for our MongoDB and easily make requests to our backend such as the “Mongoose.find({})” this method allows us to get back everything from our database the way we are using it in our code is to get back all of our users in our database so our frontend can display those users. Mongoose-Unique-validator this library allows us to easily create error handling when creating our schema. Multer is a node.js middleware for handling multipart/form-data, which is primarily used for uploading files, it is used by our backend to save the profile images and places images given to us by the user. The UUID library is the way we are identifying our users by their specific given user number and that way it is easily found in our database. I am using all these libraries on the server side of my code, to make it easier for the server and client to connect. Express is our main library that we use to connect our frontend to our backend and make requests back and forth which is what we are mainly using in our app, and axios is only used to make requests to our google maps API. Also like our frontend the only API we are using is The Google Maps API, we needed it to display the location given by the user and displaying it on a interactable map, It's on the util folder in our app this allows us to save requests to this API and send coordinate information to the front end. The way we built our backend first we built our routes and our main app.js, this is where we listen to the request of our frontend to our backend. After that we set up our controllers which are used to handle most of the logic behind our backend, such as creating a place, storing it, creating a user, storing it, sending all users to our frontend. They way we approached was to first handle basic logic such as displaying all users and then saving user information when the create a user and a place then moved onto more complex content and  additional content

For My Database I used MongoDB, MongoDB  is a document database with the scalability and flexibility that you want with the querying and indexing that you need. This allows us to store our places and information of our users. In order to make MongoDB more easier to use we use a library for MongoDB and that is Mongoose, Mongoose  is an Object Data Modeling library for MongoDB and Node.js. It manages relationships between data, provides schema validation, and is used to translate between objects in code and the representation of those objects in MongoDB. We used mongoose to make our Schema for MongoDB, and instead of running mongo on our machine instead we are using Mongo Atlas. Mongo atlas is running a database on the cloud instead of running our database locally, In our models folder is where we make our Schema and in app.js is where we connect to our database. We needed to save our users information and display it. We store information like their email, password, name, image, and the amount of places they have and created.

We are using heroku and firebase, heroku is used to run our backend and firebase to run our frontend. Heroku is a container-based cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS). Developers use Heroku to deploy, manage, and scale modern apps. Much like Heroku, Google Firebase is a Google-backed application development software that enables developers to develop iOS, Android and Web apps. I used these technologies to deploy my app on  July, 5, 2022. I decided to run our frontend and backend separately on two different services to spread resources and make it better for the user and for me. Since I am using a free account I am limited to the amount of requests my website can take and if it was all hosted on the same service it would be easier to hit a certain limit on requests, so that way I spread resources among two different services.

I learned a lot about React and the different services I can use and how I can use them in my full stack application. I learned a lot about react and need to learn a lot more because this course gave me a lot of insight on how to structure and build the frontend. 
